# 3.3: Manage Files with Linux Commands

## Scenario
In this scenario, you need to ensure that the /home/analyst directory is properly organized.

You have to make a few changes to the /home/analyst directory and the files it contains.

You also have to edit a file to record the changes or updates you make to the directory.


### Task 1. Create a new directory
1. Create a new subdirectory called logs in the /home/analyst directory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ cd /home/analyst
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ mkdir logs
```

2. List the contents of the /home/analyst directory to confirm that you’ve successfully created the new logs subdirectory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ ls
logs  notes  reports  temp
```

### Task 2. Remove a directory
Remove the /home/analyst/temp directory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ rmdir temp
```

2. List the contents of the /home/analyst directory to confirm that you have removed the temp subdirectory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ ls
logs  notes  reports
```

### Task 3. Move a file
1. Navigate to the /home/analyst/notes directory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ cd /home/analyst/notes
```

2. Move the Q3patches.txt file from the /home/analyst/notes directory to the /home/analyst/reports directory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ mv Q3patches.txt /home/analyst/reports/
```
3. List the contents of the /home/analyst/reports directory to confirm that you have moved the file successfully.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ cd /home/analyst/reports
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ ls
Q1patches.txt  Q2patches.txt  Q3patches.txt
```

### Task 4. Remove a file
1. Remove the tempnotes.txt file from the /home/analyst/notes directory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ cd /home/analyst/notes
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ rm tempnotes.txt 
```

2. List the contents of the /home/analyst/notes directory to confirm that you’ve removed the file successfully.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ ls
```

### Task 5. Create a new file
1. Use the touch command to create an empty file called tasks.txt in the /home/analyst/notes directory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ touch tasks.txt
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ ls
tasks.txt
```

### Task 6. Edit a file
1. Using the nano text editor, open the tasks.txt file that is located in the /home/analyst/notes directory.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ nano tasks.txt
```
2. Copy and paste the following text into the text input area of the nano editor:
```
 Completed tasks
  1. Managed file structure in /home/analyst
Save and Exit
```

3. Display the contents of the tasks.txt file to confirm that it contains the updated task details.
```
analyst@1c5e96b5f288:~$ cat tasks.txt 
Completed tasks
  1. Managed file structure in /home/analyst
```