# 3.5: Add and Manage Users with Linux Commands

## Scenario

In this scenario, a new employee with the username researcher9 joins an organization. You have to add them to the system and continue to manage their access during their time with the organization.

Here’s how you’ll do this task: First, you’ll add a new employee to the system and then to their primary group. Second, you’ll make this employee the owner of a file related to a particular project. Third, you’ll add the new employee to a supplementary group. Finally, you’ll delete the employee from the system.


### Task 1. Add a new user
1. Write a command to add a user called researcher9 to the system.
```
analyst@ece1a140281a:~$ sudo useradd researcher9
```

2. Use the usermod command and -g option to add researcher9 to the research_team group as their primary group.
```
analyst@ece1a140281a:~$ sudo usermod -g research_team researcher9
```

### Task 2. Assign file ownership
1. Use the chown command to make researcher9 the owner of /home/researcher2/projects/project_r.txt
```
analyst@ece1a140281a:~$ sudo chown researcher9 /home/researcher2/projects/project_r.txt
```

### Task 3. Add the user to a secondary group
1. Use the usermod command with the -a and -G options to add researcher9 to the sales_team group as a secondary group.
```
analyst@ece1a140281a:~$ sudo usermod -a -G sales_team researcher9
```

### Task 4. Delete a user
1. Run a command to delete researcher9 from the system:
```
analyst@ece1a140281a:~$ sudo userdel researcher9
userdel: group researcher9 not removed because it is not the primary group of user researcher9.
```

2. Run the following command to delete the researcher9 group that is no longer required:
```
analyst@ece1a140281a:~$ sudo groupdel researcher9
```

Note: When you create a new user in Linux, a group with the same name as the user is automatically created and the user is the only member of that group. After removing users, it is good practice to clean up any such empty groups that may remain behind.