# 3.8.2: More Filters in SQL

## Scenario
In this scenario, you’re investigating a recent security incident.

You need to gather information about login attempts for certain dates and times. This will help in resolving a security incident.

Here’s how you’ll do this task: First, you’ll retrieve login events made after a certain date. Second, you’ll narrow the focus of the search to filter logins in a date range. Third, you’ll investigate logins that were made at certain times. Finally, you’ll filter login attempts based on their event IDs.

Note: <> (not equal to)

### Task 1. Retrieve login attempts after a certain date
1. Complete the SQL query to retrieve data for login attempts made after '2022-05-09'. Replace X with the correct operator:
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM log_in_attempts WHERE login_date > '2022-05-09';
```

2. Complete the SQL query to retrieve data for login attempts that were made on or after '2022-05-09'. Replace X with the correct operator:
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM log_in_attempts WHERE login_date >= '2022-05-09';
```

### Task 2. Retrieve logins in a date range
1. Run the query to retrieve the required records. You must insert the required dates X and Y:
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM log_in_attempts WHERE login_date BETWEEN '2022-05-09' AND '2022-05-11';
```

### Task 3. Investigate logins at certain times
1. Write a SQL query to retrieve data for login attempts made before '07:00:00'
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM log_in_attempts WHERE login_time < '07:00:00';
```
2. Modify the query to return logins between '06:00:00' and '07:00:00'.
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM log_in_attempts WHERE login_time BETWEEN '06:00:00' AND '07:00:00';
```

### Task 4. Investigate logins by event ID
1. Write a query to return login attempts with event_id greater than or equal to 100.
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM log_in_attempts WHERE event_id >= 100;
```
2. Modify the query to return only login attempts with event_id between 100 and 150.
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM log_in_attempts WHERE event_id BETWEEN 100 AND 150;
```

