# 3.9: Complete a Join

## Scenario
In this scenario, you’ll investigate a recent security incident that compromised some machines.

You are responsible for getting the required information from the database for the investigation.

Here’s how you’ll do this task: First, you’ll use an inner join to identify which employees are using which machines. Second, you’ll use left and right joins to find machines that do not belong to any specific user and users who do not have any specific machine assigned to them. Finally, you’ll use an inner join to list all login attempts made by all employees.


### Task 1. Match employees to their machines
1. Run the following query to retrieve all records from the machines table:
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM machines;
```

2. Complete the query to perform an inner join between the machines and employees tables on the device_id column. Replace X and Y with this column name:
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM machines INNER JOIN employees ON machines.device_id = employees.device_id;
```

### Task 2. Return more data
1. Run the following SQL query to connect the machines and employees tables through a left join. You must replace the keyword X in the query:
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM machines LEFT JOIN employees ON machines.device_id = employees.device_id;
```

2. Run the following SQL query to connect the machines and employees tables through a right join. You must replace the keyword X in the query to solve the problem:
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM machines RIGHT JOIN employees ON machines.device_id = employees.device_id;
```

### Task 3. Retrieve login attempt data
1. Run the following SQL query to perform an inner join on the employees and log_in_attempts tables. Replace X with the name of the right table. Then replace Y and Z with the name of the column that connects the two tables:
```
MariaDB [organization]> SELECT * FROM employees INNER JOIN log_in_attempts ON employees.username = log_in_attempts.username;
```

